Protocol - a defined set of standards that computers must follow in order to communicate properly
Computer Networking - the name we've given to the full scope of how computers communicate with each other
The Ethernet standarts also define a protocol responsible for getting data to nodes on the same network or link
Internetwork - A collection of networks connected together through routers, the most famous of these being the Internet
IP (Internet Protocol) is the heart of the Internet and most smaller networks around the world
Cables - Connect different devices to each other, allowing data to be transmitted over them (they can either be copper or fiber)
The most common forms of copper twsited-pair cables used in networking are Cat5, Cat5e and cat6 (Cat short for category)
Crosstalk - When an electrical pulse on one wire is accidentally detected on another wire
Fiber Cables - Contain individual optical fibers, which are tiny tubes made out of glass about the width of a human hair
Hub - A physical layer device that allows for connections from many computers at once (is a layer 1 device)
Collision Domain - A network segment where only one device can communicate at a time
(Network) Switch - (is a layer 2, data link device)
hubs and Switches - the primary devices used to connect computers on a single network, usually, reffered to as LAN (Local Area Network)
Router - a device that knows how to forward data between independent networks
router - a device that forwards traffic depending on the destination address of the traffic
Routing protocols fall into two main categories: interior gateway protocols (Link state routing or distance-vector protocols) and exterior gateway protocols
Interior Gateway Protocols - Used by routers to share information within single autonomous system
Autonomous System - a collection of networks that all fall under the control of a single network operetor
Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) - Routers share data between each other via this protocol, which lets them learn about the most optimal paths to forward traffic
Duplex Communication - the concept that information can flow in both directions across the cable
Simples Communication - this process is unidirectional
Full Duples allows communication in two directions at the same time; half duplex means that only one side is communication at a time
MAC Address - A globally unique identifier attached to an individual network interface
Data Packet - An all-encompassing term that represents any single set of binary data being sent across a network link
Ethernet frame - a highly structured collection of information presented in a specific order
In most cases static IP addresses are reserved for servers and network devices while dynamic IP addresses are reserved for clients
IP Datagram - highly structured series of fields that are stricly defined
REWATCH VIDEO ALL PARTS OF DATAGRAM - WEEK 2 - THE NETWORK LAYER - VID 3
ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) - a protocol used to discover the hardware address of a node with a certain IP address
ARP Table - a list of IP addresses and MAC addresses associated with them
Subnetting - the process of taking a large network and splitting it up into many individual and smaller subnetworks or subnets
Subnet Mask - 32 bit numbers that are normally written as four octets in decimal (IP addresses as well as many other things are also written like this, each part is 8 bits)
Subnet Masks are also a way for a computer to use AND operetors to determine if an IP address exists on the same network
CIDR (Classless inter-domain routing) - CIDR is an even more flexible approach to describing blocks of IP addresses.
Demarcation point - to describe where one network or system ends and another one begins
In computer science a list is known as a vector
Internet Assigned Numbers Authority - (IANA) a non-profit organization that helps manage things like IP address alocation, and is also responsible for ASN
Autonomous System Number (ASN) - Numbers assigned to individual autonomous systems
Port - 16 bit number thats used to direct traffic to specific services running on a networked computer
TCP Segment - made up of a TCP header and a data section
Handshake - a way for two devices to ensure that they are speaking the same protocol and will be able to understand each other
Firewall - adevice that blocks traffic that meets a certain criteria
Open System Interconnection (OSI) Model - has 2 more layers between the transport and the application model. Session and then Presentation
Session Layer - Facilitating the communication between actual applications and the transport layer
Presentation - Responsible for making sure that the unencapsulated application layer data is able to be understood by the application in the question
In TCP/IP and UDP networks, a port is an endpoint to a logical connection and the way a client program specifies a specific server program on a computer in a network. The port number identifies what type of port it is. For example, port 80 is used for HTTP traffic.
Time to live (TTL) or hop limit is a mechanism that limits the lifespan or lifetime of data in a computer or network. TTL may be implemented as a counter or timestamp attached to or embedded in the data.
Also a value in seconds that can be configured by the ownder of a domain name for how long a name server is allowed to cache an entry before it shouold discard it and perform a full resolution again
A routing table is a set of rules, often viewed in table format, that is used to determine where data packets traveling over an Internet Protocol (IP) network will be directed. All IP-enabled devices, including routers and switches, use routing tables.
DNS (Domain Name System) - A global and highly distributed network service that resolves strings of letters into IP addresses for you
Domain Name - The term we use for something that can be resolved by DNS
Anycast - a technique that is used to route traffic to different destinations depending on factors like location, congestion or link health
There are 13 root servers as well as that TLD is short for Top Level Domain
The difference between TcP and UDP is that UDP is connectionless (as well as less security and a higher chance a packet gets lost before reaching its destination)
Video streaming is good for UDP because you dont need every frame to get to the client etc.
A CNAME record is used to redirect traffic from one domain name to another
Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) - When you combine the sub domain (host) also the domain name and the TLD you gets whats known as a FQDN
DNS Zones - Allow for easier control over multiple levels of a domain
Zone Files - simple configuration files that declare all resource records for a particular zone
Start Of Authority (SOA) - Declares the zone and the name of the name server that is authoritative for it
NS Records - Indicate other name servers that might also be responsible for this zone
Reverse lookup zone files - These let DNS resolvers ask for an IP and get the FQDN associated with it returned
PTR (Pointer resource record) - resolves an IP to a name
MX means mail exchange
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) - An application layer protocol that automates the configuration process of hosts on a network
Dynamic Allocation - a range of IP addresses is set aside for client devices and one of these IPs is issued to these devices when they request one
Automatic Allocation - a range if IP addresses is set aside for assignment purpose
Fixed Allocation - requires a manually specified list of MAC Addresses and their corresponding IPs
NTP (Network Time Protocol) - Used to keep all computers on a network synchronised in time
DHCP Discovery - the process by which a client configured to use DHCP attempts to get network configuration information
NAT (Network Address Translation) - A technology that allowes a gateway usually a router or a firewall to re-write the source IP of an outgoing
IP datagram while retaining the original IP in order to re-write it into an response. Taking an IP address and translating it into another.
IP masquerading - pretty much hidding the IP address in order to have better security
Port Preservation - a technique where the source port chosen by a client is the same port used by the router
Port Forwarding - a technique where specific destination ports can be configured to always be delivered to specific nodes
VPM (Virtual Private Network) - a technology that allows for the extension of a private or a local network to hosts that might not be on that local network
Proxy Service - A server that acts on behalf of a client in order to access another service
Reverse Proxy - is a service that might appear to be a single server to external clients but actually represents many servers living behind it
Baud Rate - A measurement of how many bits can be passed across a phone line in a seccond
Broadbadn (in terms of inernet connectivity) - any connectivity technology that isn't dial-up internet
T-carrier Technologies - Originally invented by AT&T in order to transmit multiple phone calls over a single link
WAN (Wide Area Network) - Acts like a single network, but spans across multiple physical locations
Frequency Band - A certain section of the radio spectrum that's been agreed upon to be used for certain communications
Channels - Individual, smaller sections of the overall frequency band used by a wireless network
Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) - An encryption technology that provides a very low level of privacy
WiFi Protected Access (WPA) - better encryption but same job as WEP. WPA2 is even a better one using 256bit key to encrypt its data
Checksum - a digit representing the sum of the correct digits in a piece of stored or transmitted digital data, against which later comparisons can be made to detect errors in the data.
MAC Filtering - you configure your access points to only allow for connections from a specific set of MAC Addresses belonging to devices you trust
ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) - mainly used by the router or the host to communicate errors. A ICMP has a header as well as a data section which is used to fidure out
which transmissions generated the error. First field is the type field, 8bits long and specifies type of message being delivered. Then is the code fiel also 8bits long.
After this there is a 16bit checksum. Next up, 32bit without a name (the rest of the header) After that is the data payload of the packet.
Ping (a program from command line) - lets you send a special type of ICMP message called Echo Request (if everything works it will send an Echo Reply message back) 
Traceroute - a utility that lets you discover the path between two nodes and give you information about each hop along the way
Registrar - an organisation responsible for assigning individual domain names to other organisations or individuals (checks possible domain name)
PaaS (Platform as a service) - a subset of clous computing where a platform is provided for customers to run their services
SaaS (Softwear as a Service) - a way of licensing the use of softwear to others while keeping that softwear centrally hosted and managed

Example Site = www.valchygaming.com ('www' is a sub domain also known as a host domain, valchygaming' is the domain name and '.com' is the tld or the top level domain)
Example IP = 9.100.100.100 and its mask is 255.255.255.0. This can also be represented as 9.100.100.100/24 (24 is the number of 1s before the first 0)

Super Interesting commands:
------------ Network Layer Commands ------------
1. tracert + IP address or website name e.g tracert google.com || 8.8.8.8 (shows hops how my request gets to google.com)
2. ping + IP address or website name e.g ping google.com || 8.8.8.8 (shows data loss etc if there is a network problem)
3. pathping + IP address or website name e.g pathping google.com || 8.8.8.8 (more datailed path show SUPER COOL)
4. nslookup + IP address or website name e.g nslookup google.com || 8.8.8.8 (just typing nslookup and then set debug will give you more info)
------------ Transport Layer Commands ------------
1. netcat (for linux/mac) and Test-NetConnection (for windows)

Five Layer Model:
1. Physical Layer - Represents the physical devices that interconnect computers (cables etc)
2. Data Link Layer - Responsible for defining a common way of interpreting these signals so network devices can communicate
3. Network Layer - Allows different networks to communicate with each other through devices known as routers
4. Transport - Sorts out which client and server programs are supposed to get the data (allows traffic to be directed to a specific network application)
5. Application - allows these applications to communicate in a way they understand

Basic Routing:
1. Recieve data packet
2. Examines destination IP
3. Looks up IP destination network in routing table
4. Forwards traffic to destination

There are five primary types of DNS Servers
1. Caching Name Servers - purpose is to store known domain name lookups for a certain amount of time
2. Recursive Name Servers - Perform full DNS resolution requests
3. Root Name Servers 
4. TLD Name Servers
5. Authoritative Name Servers

Four Things every single computer connected to a network has to have configured
1. IP Address
2. Subnet Mask
3. Gatway
4. Name server